# Implementation detail of type inference

This documentation describes implementation detail of function type inference.

## infer-prest

`infer-prest` in cs_gen.clj is the function to infer function type with `<*`
syntax, like `hash-map` with following type:

    (All [k v]
      [(HSeq [k v] :repeat true) <* -> (Map k v)])

The signature of this function is `[X Y S T T-var R expected]`, this is very
similar to `infer-vararg`, except `T-var` is bound to type that on the left of
`<*`, which is `(HSeq [k v] :repeat true)` in `hash-map` example.

I implement it in a very understandable way: split `S` at count of T into
`short-S` and `rest-S`, wrap `rest-S` into `HeterogeneousVector`, and then
invoke `infer` to do the real work.

Because I have already implemented cs-gen for `HeterogeneousVector`, `HSeq` and
`HSequential` with `repeat` attribute. This should works fine.

The problem that concerns me is the explicit usage of `HeterogeneousVector`,
and the ability that people can use whatever type they want to be left of `<*`,
as long as that type has `repeat` attribute.

So if we support `repeat` in `HeterogeneousList` someday, and people use
`HList` as prest type, it will get type error in all cases.

## infer-pdot

`infer-pdot` in cs_gen.clj is the function to infer function type with `<...`
syntax, like `assoc` with following type:

    (All [m k v c ...]
       [m k v (HSeq [c c] :repeat true) <... c
        -> (Assoc m k v c ... c)])

syntax of `<...` is similar to `...` syntax, which requires type on its left,
and bounded symbol on its right.

The signature of `infer-pdot` is
`[X dotted-var dotted-bnd S T T-dotted R must-vars & {:keys [expected]}]`
which is similar to `infer-dots`. But we requires `T-dotted` must has `repeat`
and `type` attributes.

I treat all types in `types` of `T-dotted` as pre-type, so I first substitute
pre-type with fresh symbols generated by `var-store-take`.

Other part of `infer-pdot` is similar to `infer-dots`.

The main user of `<...` is `assoc` function, and `rng` is typically `Assoc`
type. The problem I faced is that it is very difficult to do cs-gen with
`Assoc` and `HMap` while checking with `expected`. Because `HMap` has so many
attributes like `optional`, `absent-keys`, and we can not constraint very
accurately on `target`, `entries` and `dentries` of `Assoc`, at this time.

I am wondering if we could construct expected type when we are done inference
of all arguments, and then check constructed type with `expected` type. This
will makes inference much easier to do, but I have not tried this way, and not
sure if this works.

## problem with cs-gen `Assoc`, `HMap`

This case is very difficult to handle, not only because `HMap` has so many
attributes, but also because `Assoc` is not a complete type(it just simulate a
function). So, when we do
`(cs-gen (Assoc m k v c ... c) (HMap :mandatory {:a Number :b String}))`
`m` could be either `{}`, `{:a Number}`, `{:b String}` or
`{:a Number :b String}`, and type of `k`, `v` and `c` is also uncertain.

### example

Right now we annotate `assoc` as

    (All [m k v c ...]
       [m k v (HSeq [c c] :repeat true) <... c
        -> (Assoc m k v c ... c)])

and if we do

    => (t/cf (assoc {:a 1} :b "a") (HMap :mandatory {:a Number :b String}))

this will cause NYI error, because we have not supported cs-gen `Assoc` with
dentries and `HMap` right now.

But if we do, we should generate constraint on `Assoc` and `HMap`, this is
because `HMap` is our expected type. So how should we generate that constraints?

Should `m` be `{}` or `{:a Number}` or `{:a Number :b String}`, they are both
possible type of first argument, like `(assoc {} :a 1 :b "c")`,
`(assoc {:a 1} :b "c")` and `(assoc {:a 1 :b "c"} :a 2)`.

Other variables like `k`, `v` and `c` are even more complicated, because order
of arguments also matters. For example, `(assoc {} :a 1 :b "c")` will constraint
`k` to be `:a`, `v` to be `1`, and so on. But `(assoc {} :b "c" :a 1)` will
constraint `k` to be `:b`, `v` to be `"c"`. But they will generate same output,
so the type of output should be same.

So I am wondering if we could delay the checking of expected type? We could
check substituted `Assoc` with constraints we generated on arguments, and then
check that substituted `Assoc` with expected type? But I am not sure where to
insert this special case, in `infer-pdot`?
